Hello everyone and welcome to your next interview problem.
This one's called linked list reversal.
The problem statement is this.
Write a function to reverse a linked list in place the function will take the head of the list as the
input and return the new head of the list.
So you're going to be given the example linked list node class.
Here we have a class node object and a value attribute as well as an index node attribute.
This is the same one we developed when we are creating a scent singly linked list implementation in
Python.
Then go ahead and fill out the function below with your solution.
As far as testing your solution you should note that this is a classic just run a cell for testing solution
.
So go ahead and read the statements below carefully.
You should be able to easily Tester's your own solution to make sure it works.
Given the short list A B C D with values 1 2 3 4 what you're going to do is check the effect of your
reverse function and make sure the results match the logic here below.
So for example here we've created 4 nodes A B C D with values 1 2 3 4.
Then we set up the order A B C D.
So it's a next note to be the next node C C next to D.
So if we go ahead and check these values will get to 3 4 and if we check the next note value of D will
run into an error because deid does not have a next note.
It was the last note.
So far so good.
No again there is no value preceeding the last node so that makes sense.
Now let's reverse the linked list.
We should see the opposite order of values then if we go ahead and reverse the linked list by passing
in that head node.
If you filled in the link in the function correctly you should get something looks like this.
Print D that next note value get 3 C next that value to 1.
And if you ask for the next node value of a.
This should give the same error as d gave last time because now it points to none.
OK so hopefully you can use that logic to just test your function on your own before checking out the
solution yourself.
OK that's it for the problem.
Again you're just writing a function to reverse a linked list in place.
All right.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture.
Well we'll go over the solution to this problem